1. Exploratory Data Analysis
   
1.1 Description and Characterization of Dataset
   
The dataset we are going to use is obtained from Bechle et al. [1] which was used for estimating air pollution in terms of NO2 from 2000 to 2010. The dataset contains spatial and temporal concentration of NO2 in ppb at different locations of the different states in US. It also contains Geographic Information System (GIS) data on land-use features such as impervious surfaces, population density, length of different types of roads-residential, major and total etc. These are commonly used as proxies for different pollution sources [2]. Based on the dataset, NO2 concentration varies significantly from state to state depending on different land-use pattern and the value range between 0.31~34.21 ppb for different states. The distribution of the NO2 pollutants across the US based on location are shown in Figure 1. Some of the explanations of the dataset are provided below:

Impervious_100: This represents the percentage of impervious surfaces such as roads, buildings etc. within a 100-meter buffer around the measuring station.
Major_1000: It refers to the length of the major roads within a 1-kilometer radius around the measuring location.
Resident_500: This indicates length of the roads within 500-meter radius of the monitoring station.
Total_100: It represents the length of all the roads including major, minor and residential within a 100-meter buffer zone around the measuring station.
Population_100: It denotes the population density within the 100-meter buffer area around the measuring station.

1.2 Preliminary Analysis and Plots

From the given dataset, we did some preliminary analysis to visualize the dataset and the summary of the observations are described briefly:
First, we tried find out if there is any direct relationship between any of the land use characteristics and NO2 concentrations measured at the monitor station. For this preliminary analysis, we considered the effect of this land use pattern within 100m, 5000m and 10000m radius of the station. The reason for selecting these three radii was to cover short, medium and long-distance land use behavior around the station. Figure 1-6 presents the effect of different land-use characteristic on the NO2 concentration.

For impervious surfaces, for all three cases, we can clearly see there is a trend that with the increase of impervious surfaces around the station, the concentration of NO2 increases gradually (Figure 2). As the impervious surface increases, it indicates there is increase in roads, sidewalks, parking lots, buildings, traffic and also there is decrease in vegetation areas and soil surface. Therefore, all these impervious surfaces are kind of indicator of high volume of vehicles, high population density which contributes to high NO2 emission and also the absence of natural filtration effect with the absence of vegetation is another major source of NO2 emission.

In case of Major roads, we clearly see with the increasing length of major roads, there is clear increase in the concentration of NO2 (Figure 3). Moreover, visually, it looks like there is a steep increase in the concentration of NO2 initially with the increase of major roads, but the rate of increase slows down as the length of major roads increases further. The reason of such increase is understandable since the production of NO2 is directly influenced by the volume of traffic and high traffic areas will release more NO2 as the more diesel vehicles will be on the road contributing to high NO2 emissions. Similar trend is observed for the relationship between NO2 concentration and residential roads and total roads (Figure 4-5).

In case of population, it looked like an exponential curve which might describe the pattern very well where initially with the increase in population there is a drastic increase in NO2 concentration which saturates at a certain point (Figure 6).

Figure 7 shows the relationship between NO2 concentration and the distance from the coast. In general, as the distance from the coast will be less, there should be lower concentration of NO2 due to the ventilation from the winds. However, in the figure we can clearly see higher concentration of NO2 in some of the places which are closest to coast. It indicates that although coastal distance have effect on NO2 but it should be analyzed in combination with other land use pattern because even if the place is closer to coast but if there is high population density and roads, it will have higher NO2. 
Overall, all of these land-use characteristics have their own effect on the NO2 concentration and in some cases, there is strong relationship with NO2.

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/uiceds/project-team492/refs/heads/main/content/images/Figure%201.png

